# UI

Date: 2023-04-13

## Status

**DRAFT**.

## Context

The URL shortener requires a user interface for people who do not want to, or cannot use the API.

## Options

1. Remove the existing serer side rendered UI and only serve API endpoints. Those API endpoints are then invoked from a client side app (ex. Nextjs, Gatsby etc.), from a seperate infrastructure.
2. Retain the use of the server side rendered UI and apply the relevant modifications (ex. CDS design system)

### Option 1 (API only with client side app)

We can decouple the UI and the API. The advantage is a seperation of concerns where the python appplication only deals with the API interactions and we have a seperate UI application. This is the classic microservices model where each component only deals with a limited subset of requirements. This would require another tech stack (Javascript) as well as the corresponding infrastructure. We would also need to create additional API routes to handle user authentication.

### Option 2 (API + server side rendered UI)

We can keep the UI inside the API applicaiton and render it from the same python server. We already have the jinja2 templates set up and there is a few tweaks we would have to make for CSP rules on Cloudfront. User authentication would be simpler as they would not need to be converted into RESTful endpoints.

## Additional considerations

While a microsercicws model is a good idea, it is not a requirement for this project. The UI is not a complex application and the python application is already set up to handle the UI. We can always decouple the UI and the API in the future if we need to.

## Decision

We will keep the UI inside the python application and render it from the same python server.

## Consequences

We will need to make a few tweaks to the UI to make it more accessible and to apply the CDS design system. We will also need to make a few tweaks to the python application to handle user authentication.
